Goal 1: Predict whether medical tests are ordered by a clinician in the remainder of the hospital stay: 0 means that there will be no further tests of this kind ordered, 1 means that at least one of a test of that kind will be ordered. 0.0 indicates certainty this test will not be ordered, 1.0 indicates certainty it will be ordered. The corresponding columns containing the binary groundtruth in train_labels.csv are: LABEL_BaseExcess, LABEL_Fibrinogen, LABEL_AST, LABEL_Alkalinephos, LABEL_Bilirubin_total, LABEL_Lactate, LABEL_TroponinI, LABEL_SaO2, LABEL_Bilirubin_direct, LABEL_EtCO2.
Goal 2: Predict whether sepsis will occur in the remaining stay: 0 means that no sepsis will occur, 1 otherwise. The corresponding column containing the binary groundtruth in train_labels.csv is LABEL_Sepsis.
Goal 3: Predict future mean values of key vital signs. The corresponding columns containing the real-valued groundtruth in train_labels.csv are LABEL_RRate, LABEL_ABPm, LABEL_SpO2, LABEL_Heartrate.


I preprocessed the features to replace nans with 0.0 and then filled missing data with the average values for each patient.  This required burdensome data cleaning and preprocessing for me.  For part 1, I decided to use sklearn’s AdaBoostRegressor and attempted to predict each test individually-- meaning that I trained 9 different models on the data.  For part 2, I upsampled the data first with my own naively implemented function and then again with imblearn’s SMOTE to counter the class imbalance.  For this part, I used sklearn’s GradientBoostingRegressor.  I also tried multiple versions of CNNs using the keras library, but did not receive encouraging results at the onset and so was discouraged by this methodology.  I also tried various types of feature engineering for this task (including averaging the features across their time sample so that each pid had only one row of data).  For part 3, I used sklearn’s SVR to predict the average future vital signs. I weighted the later time samples when I averaged all the values across the patients data because I found that they were more predictive of the future values than measurements taken earlier in the 12 hour training frame.
