The goal here is to classify mutations of a human antibody protein into active (1) and inactive (0) based on the provided mutation information. Under active mutations the protein retains its original function, and inactive mutation cause the protein to lose its function. The mutations differ from each other by 4 amino acids in 4 respective sites. The sites or locations of the mutations are fixed. The amino acids at the 4 mutation sites are given as 4-letter combinations, where each letter denotes the amino acid at the corresponding mutation site. 

I implemented a neural net with the help of the Keras library.  Before moving to a Neural Net, I attempted to classify with an AdaBoostClassifier from sklearn with a Decision Tree as the base model.  While this solution yielded not horrible results, it was impossible to beat the hard baseline.  The model effectively maxxed out at .88, after using 800 simple estimators-- way too many.  I scrapped that and moved to a very simple neural net with one hidden layer of 512 nodes.  There is significant class imbalance in the labels for this task, so when compiling my net set the weights to {0:1, 1:1.5} (after cross-validating to find that ratio was better than the other options I tried (e.g. 1:5, 1:2, etc.).  I kept my batch sizes quite small at 16, after cross validating between 32, 64, 128, and 248.  The smaller number of batch sizes meant that training took a little longer, but ultimately I found that it helped me avoid the local minima I might have been stuck in had I used a larger batch size.  I also used the Adam optimizer for an SGD-like effect with added momentum.  

